# Flowbite Icons for React

Small library containing all 487 [Flowbite Icons](https://flowbite.com/icons/) as customizable React components.

<font size='5'>[Demo page with all icons via Storybook](https://flowbite-react-icons.vercel.app/)</font>

## Installation proccess

To install flowbite-react-icons to your project, simply run:

```sh
npm i flowbite-react-icons
```

After that, add plugin to your **tailwind.config.js** (skip this step if you don't want to use 'size' prop in icons' components):

```js
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
module.exports = {
  /* ... */
  plugins: [
    require('flowbite-react-icons/plugin'),
    /* ... */
  ],
};
```

This plugin will extend your config with safelist containing all standart height and width-related tailwind classes (such as **'h-10'**, **'w-3.5'**, **'h-1/6'** etc.). It will add about **4 kB** worth of classes to final css file generated by tailwind, compared to not having this classes at all.

> **Note**
> This plugin is necessary for 'size' prop to work properly, because tailwind cannot scan for dynamically-generated class names.

## How to use:

### Name convention:

All icons' names matches following rules:

- Name will be **as close as possible** to it's [Flowbite Icons](https://flowbite.com/icons/) equivalent (with the exeptions of some naming errors, which was corrected to match the icon's image, for example, **'arrow-left-to-bracket'** renamed to **'ArrowRightToBracketOI'**, because on that icon arrow is pointing to right, all differences with the Flowbite Icons will be listed below).
- Name will be converted from **kebab-case** to **PascalCase**.
- Name will **always** end with **'SI'** for 'Solid Icon' style or **'OI'** for 'Outline Icon' style, even though some icons don't have alternative style (for example, Apple's icon don't have outline variant, but still will be named 'AppleSI', and not just 'Apple').

So if you want to use, let's say, **'address-book'** icon with solid style and **'arrow-down'** icon, your import will look like this:

```jsx
import { AddressBookSI, ArrowDownOI } from 'flowbite-react-icons';
```

### Props:

- **Size**: takes all standart height and width-related tailwind units' names plus 'xs' -> '2xl' range, which translates to '3' -> '8' in tailwind units. **Default: 'md'**. Examples:

```jsx
<AngleDownOI size='lg' /> // Will apply 'h-6 w-6' classes to svg element
<AngleLeftOI size='24' /> // Will apply 'h-24 w-24' classes to svg element
<AngleRightOI size='screen' /> // Will apply 'h-screen w-screen' classes to svg element
<AngleUpOI /> // Will apply 'h-5 w-5' classes to svg element
```

- **strokeWidth**: acts exactly like `<path />`'s strokeWidth prop in outline style icons, will not affect anything in solid style icons. **Default: '2'**. Examples:

```jsx
<ArrowLeftOI strokeWidth='3' /> // Will apply stroke-width='3' to every path element inside svg element
<ArrowLeftOI strokeWidth={1} /> // Will apply stroke-width='1' to every path element inside svg element
<AppleSI strokeWidth='5' /> // Will not affect anything
```

- **className**: acts exactly like standart className prop. If you're using height and width-related tailwind classes, this prop will have priority over **'size'** prop. Examples:

```jsx
<BellSI className='text-red-500' /> // Will apply 'h-5 w-5 text-red-500' classes to svg element
<BookOI size='12' className='p-4 h-24' /> // Will apply 'h-24 w-12 p-4' classes to svg element
<CameraOI className='h-8 w-8' /> // Will apply 'h-8 w-8' classes to svg element
```

- Besides that, you can also add any `<svg />`-related props. Example:

```jsx
<BugSI aria-label="Bug icon" /> // Will apply aria-label='Bug icon' to svg element
```

## List of differences with Flowbite Icons:

- **arrow-left-to-bracket**: 'left' changed to 'right' to match icon's image.
- **arrow-right-bracket**: 'bracket' changed to 'from-bracket' to match icon's image.
- **badge-check** in solid style: slightly altered (checkmark is now clipped in badge).
- **bell-active** and **bell-active-alt** in outline style: swapped with each other to match their solid style equivalent.
- **calendar-month** in outline style: slightly altered to match general icons' generation proccess.
- **camera-device** and **camera-foto**: renamed to 'camera' for outline and solid style respectively.
- **edit** in outline style: changed to right icon from [Flowbite Icons GitHub repo](https://github.com/themesberg/flowbite-icons/blob/main/src/outline/general/edit.svg).
- **file-zip** in outline style: slightly altered to match general icons' generation proccess.
- **map-pin** and **map-pin-alt** in outline style: swapped with each other to match their solid style equivalent.
- **pause** in solid style: one of the two versions (bolder one) was named 'pause-alt'.
- **print** in outline style: changed to right icon from [Flowbite Icons GitHub repo](https://github.com/themesberg/flowbite-icons/blob/main/src/outline/general/printer.svg).
- **redo** and **undo**: swapped with each other to match their names semantically.
- **rotate**: renamed to 'refresh' in solid style.
- **star-half-stroke** in outline style: changed to right icon from [Flowbite Icons GitHub repo](https://github.com/themesberg/flowbite-icons/blob/main/src/outline/general/star-half-stroke.svg).

> **Note**
> Listed above differences refer to [Flowbite Icons **webpage**](https://flowbite.com/icons/) and not [Flowbite Icons GitHub repo](https://github.com/themesberg/flowbite-icons), and even though this library is more align to GitHub repo, there is still some differences. If you want to be 100% sure how certain icon looks or named, check [project's demo page with all icons](https://flowbite-react-icons.vercel.app/).

## For developers:

### Set up dev environment locally:

- Clone this repo:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/SuperSnowSnail/flowbite-react-icons.git
```

- Install dependencies:

```sh
npm i
```

- Check if [husky](https://typicode.github.io/husky/) was installed (you usually will get 'husky - Git hooks installed' line at the end of dependencies installation). If it's not installed, run:

```sh
npm run prepare
```

### Main commands:

Will start Storybook dev server on http://localhost:6006:

```sh
npm run dev
```

Will automatically generate all icons' elements from icons props:

```sh
npm run generate:icons
```

Will automatically generate all icons' stories from icons:

```sh
npm run generate:stories
```

Will automatically generate all icons' elements and stories:

```sh
npm run generate:all
```

Will build package to /dist/ directory:

```sh
npm run build
```

Will build Storybook to /storybook-static/ directory:

```sh
npm run build:storybook
```

> **Note**
> All commits in this project follow the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) convention.

## Credits

- All icons used by this library was made by [Flowbite](https://flowbite.com/icons) team 💙
- Project's structure and dev environment was inspired by [IgnacioNMiranda](https://github.com/IgnacioNMiranda)'s [vite-component-library-template](https://github.com/IgnacioNMiranda/vite-component-library-template/)
